I just got a question from a guy named
Niven Reeves on livestream and he asked
where do you see your channel and the
influence you have on YouTube in the
next several years even have even more
positively and broadly what kind of
impact you like to make I'm going to
give kind of a minimum answer a medium
answer and a maximum answer you know the
minimum answer the minimum is to get me
the minimum standards the minimum
expectations are important to keep in
mind here I was saying to my girlfriend
the other day while walking down the
street I said to her you know one of the
differences between myself and a lot of
other vegans on YouTube is that what I'm
doing on YouTube right now is
sustainable it really is sustainable I
can keep doing this
I keep tell you about vegan politics I
can keep doing book reviews if you've
talked about whatever books afternoon
reading keep talking about the languages
I'm studying in my life what's going on
University and my career aspirations and
the stuff I can keep this going for five
years you know at this pace and with
this level of audience direction this is
sustainable for me so if you don't like
what I'm doing it's fine but this is
sustainable and this relates to the
questions about you know not having the
comment section open on YouTube it would
not be sustainable for me I can't take
the time to go through answer do you
know what kind of constant QA in the
youtube comment section there are a lot
of other things that youtubers do to get
attention that I can't do and you know
there are other channels I see you know
actually flying to conferences going to
attend events in person you know I
respect that or doing Street interviews
with strangers face to face
conversations well I see they're doing a
lot of things that for me would not be
sustainable I could not take the time to
do that I couldn't if I were if I were
doing them in a channel for one month
then my channel would be blank for six
months United may there be nothing new
uploaded so one of the one of the basic
parts the answer is I can keep doing the
same thing I can keep saying that
playing the same role within veganism
and in terms of sharing my own life and
I do see that as tremendously positive I
mean you guys know when this channel
started I was single now I have a
girlfriend and the girlfriend comes on
my channel chest me just got a request
here on the live stream to make
videos about a Song of Ice and Fire some
of those fires of book series and
there's a TV series called Game of
Thrones that's adapted from it I can
keep doing that so I can keep sharing my
life but personal impolitic go on
YouTube in this way and you know the
quote Joseph Stalin a quantitative
build-up leads to qualitative change you
know I can keep doing that with the low
level of support I've got on patreon and
it works now when you ask what's
possible you know what in the next five
years are possible things would be
different if I were if I were simply
getting more financial support through
patreon if I were getting $1,000 a month
instead of $200 a month yeah there would
be the possibility for me actually
attend events in person then the boss
will eventually do things and create
things and you know even do fundraisers
or what have you you know I got an
invitation from another youtuber just to
go to her house and do a video with her
yes maybe not the most productive use of
time and money but whether it's going to
do that or going to actually visit some
of the more successful vegan
institutions there's one basement
Ireland they started off as a an animal
sanctuary and then did the fundraising
for an ad campaign the ad campaign is
known as go vegan world I'd love to
interview some of those people I'd love
to go and you know visit their offices
and see what they're up to and I have
actually downloaded and looked at their
financial reports the extent I was able
to say I think I'm miss remember there I
went through the charity listings I was
trying to research and get more
information on them part of what we need
to do as vegans has learned from
successful examples of institutional
organization both vegan and non vegan
you know learn from what's been
successful within our movement as well
as of course learning from the
examination of failures so it kind of so
said the kind of minimum standard medium
standard maximum standard if I had
either more time or more money I would
like to play more of a role that way
terms of active research I do think
about branching out the channel to do
more contemporary politics there used to
be a channel that still exists as a
channel the Young Turks TYT and they
just do commentary on politics the
qualitative channel now is garbage it's
complete rights now a laughingstock rail
in YouTube but the success that Channel
had you know is it is an indicative
example and I had seen some short-lived
successes like it within Canada where
the poor Canadian political discussion
channels came and went so you know in
terms onion killed the medium level may
not be sustainable for me I could put
way more time into YouTube and really
start discussing current and ongoing
politics not really the veganism to me
oh my girlfriend has conversations me
about the current civil war in Syria and
she says that they understandably look
you know this conversation we just had
could be on YouTube you could make a
video about this side of the other thing
we've just been talking about casually
and that is quite true whether it's
politics of East Asia like China Japan
Cambodia Laos Thailand politics of the
Middle East West Asia Iran Iraq etc etc
or politics United States and States
foreign policy politics within Canada
Canadian impersonations there's
definitely a medium level option where I
could do more in bringing political
content to YouTube and you know talk to
talk about the stuff in the way that I
think would be positive productive for
my channel in all elements including
bringing in new people who might be
interested to see the material on
veganism Sarah mentioned that's the way
to go I mean in terms of the the maximum
you know looking looking to work the
future and what's positive I don't know
man you know I'm an ambitious person but
most of my ambitions right now are going
into university education and some kind
of conventional career path even if I
don't know what that is so you know if I
were to start spending my time much more
of the arts if I was to buckle down and
work on painting as a painter you know
creative finance you know
actually painting canvases then I could
imagine where YouTube filming what's
going on in my studio and what I'm
working on and even ultimately selling
an auction in my art that could interact
in a really positive way but in the
other hand if I'm going to go back to
school and get a masters degree
something really boring with masters of
Public Administration master of
political science it's hard to see a
really positive interaction between what
I'm doing on YouTube and what I'm doing
in terms of research or nine-to-five job
I'd also say I mean you know it is
possible I don't know my own financial
situation it is possible I'll get a
straight-up Jo job you know working
behind the counter at Starbucks or
what-have-you and I don't know probably
if I'm in that situation probably kind
of boring
you know desk job or you know grocery
store job bagging up groceries or
something probably that would lead me to
spend more time and more energy on on
YouTube um coming back to the phrasing
of the question though part of the
question definitely was of how long how
I see my own role within the YouTube
vegan demi-monde changing the next five
years um part of the changes just cuz
the passage of time I mean it's already
a situation where I'm somebody who has
memories of what was going on on YouTube
three years ago and most the new
broadcasters don't but you know I've
said this before at some way you know
leading by example is not leading at all
a lot of people have misconceptions that
I don't see myself as being in a
leadership role on YouTube I don't see
what I what I'm doing as as providing
leadership and I mean I guess the one
thing that real like to see change is
you know when I put up a VOC review why
can't there be two or three other
channels reading the same book and then
giving their own views on that book
we're talking about like books about
politics of veganism and this kind of
stuff why can't we have a bit more of a
snowball effect with a few other
channels that take himself seriously in
terms of talking about politics in the
future of the movement that would be
really great to see but you know
I've always said this about this channel
talking me on this channel telling me
right now in this livestream going to
get back to this you know
[Music]
fundamentally if the same is meeting me
in a coffee shop and talking to me not I
mean so if someone asked you what do you
think is the maximum positive outcome of
having a bunch of conversations about
politics in a coffee shop you know
really the maximum positive outcome is
that you have a bunch of colleagues whom
you respect and who respect you and you
form the basis to organize real
foundations real political institutions
for veganism whether that's you know a
humble group of maybe five vegans who do
the paperwork and put some money in a
hat and start lobbying you know the
Board of Education to try to get the egg
and dairy messages out of our schools so
we stopped teaching children that eggs
are healthy and milk is helping you know
putting together that that could be five
people who form a tiny nonprofit in
Canada a tiny foundation or maybe
something more grandiose or something
linked to it was something more broadly
participatory maybe not grandiose but
you know I'm trying to publish this
children's storybook so that's going to
be an illustrated storybook for children
that delivers the message of veganism in
a kind of sentimental and interesting
way that's something where YouTube and a
larger audience
they could donate to that they could
support that they could be a part of
that project in a sense you know sends
very different from the kind of focused
closed-door you know desk and office
work of a lot of forms of lobbying and
political activism so yeah that's my
answer
great question and I hope you still with
me
I mean all you people I hope you still
know me five years from now and I hope I
know you five years again because that
is really the strength of social media
is that you build up a sense of rapport
and Trust even if it's just a few
hundred people people who want to see
you succeed personally and politically
and you know feeling's mutual for the
future of the vegan movement I really do
come out
you try to cooperate with people whom
sometimes I have very little come and I
hope there are more more people on the
other side who are willing to cooperate
with me maybe even though they feel they
have very little in common